Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
All right, so we ramped up our manual methods of
Twitter spamming and we're on to a much classier form
of spamming - forums.
I say spamming although I'm really joking, because
this is how virtually all businesses start out, through
some form of scrappy manual effort promotion,
and that's the way the Lord wanted it.
And the one we're going to cover in this lecture
and the next couple lectures is very, very scrappy -
scraptastic, some might say.
What's a forum? You might ask.
Well, it's any site online where people
gather to talk about some specific interest.
It's from the ancient Greek "for," meaning "to gather,"
and "um" being the Greek word for Starcraft.
Once you have access to these forums, you can then
spread your gospel in the most efficient way you want.
Best part about this strategy,
it really only takes maybe 30 minutes to an hour,
and in 90% of the cases, it's completely free.
That's of course if you don't count your time and, well, no one
is too busy to troll through some special interest forums.
Get over yourself.
Alright, so if we wanted to start taking advantage of
these gatherings to get some eyeballs on our page,
what's the best way to go about doing that?
Well, first off, I want you to know that we're going to
cover three different types of online communities.
They're all a little bit different and the strategy
for each is therefore going to be different.
Now, the first one is a traditional forum that is nameless
and hosted at the actual domain of that interest website.
Second, we'll cover Slack groups and Slack communities.
Don't know what that is? Don't worry, we'll get to it.
Third, we'll go back to Reddit.com to get even more
acquainted with that treasure of the internet.
To tackle the first group,
traditional forums, it's actually relatively easy, and unfortunately
it may or may not work for you if your industry
is really obscure, but you really would be surprised
as there are literally hundreds of thousands of
forums on the internet, ranging from interior decoration
to people who think they are elves, to people
who like to collect antique phones - variety.
There are two different ways really to find a forum.
Number one is the direct route, by just going to Google
and typing in the broader category of your industry
plus the word "forum," "community," or even adding in
some of the names of the most common forum softwares,
such as "phpbb," "vBulletin," and "Simple Machines."
Believe it or not, between those three
I just mentioned, vBulletin, phpbb, and Simple Machines,
that actually is 93% of all of the online forums.
If you have a forum, there's a 93% chance you use
one of those, so if you search for that specifically,
it's going to look just for forums. So try to think
of a topic that would attract people you want to
talk to and get to look at your product.
If you're creating, say, a hardware IT product, you
can either look for general technology enthusiast
groups, or you can go back to when we wrote down who
we think our target users are and then try to deduce
maybe what their job is. Instead of generic technology,
you could instead look for forums that say, I don't
know, for systems admins. Let's say we're selling a
new dog collar.
Well, you could go specific and search for dog forums
by saying something like "dog owner" or "dog lover"
plus any of those suffixes that we covered, or you
could go by profession, maybe type in something like
"animal foster forum" or "veterinarian forum."
Some of these you might honestly strike out
with, but in most cases, you'll find something.
Take a glance through a couple of the search results
and write down the URLs of the places you think
one, have a sizeable enough audience, and two, are on
similar topics to what you're working on, and three,
are something you could easily join, as in you don't
actually have to pay to join it or it isn't something
like Product Hunt, where you have to
be invited to join the community.
Yes, if it gives you a flashback to having to find a table
to sit at during high school lunch, and that terrifies you,
well then, you're looking at the wrong forum.
Let's go ahead and use an example
so it's easier to kind of understand.
Let's say I was making a product for, say, we'll go
back to the thing we used before, productivity.
Maybe, let's say it's a SAAS tool that helps you
get through your tasks faster throughout the day.
I might have one or two angles with this.
I could google "productivity + forum" or I could go
with something like "project manager forum," since
project managers are really all about efficiency.
It's kind of what their job is.
I can even go with something like "get shit done forum"
or "inbox zero forum" or any other buzzword you
can really think of.
All right.
So let's try one of those out.
All right, so the first one is, well,
not what we're looking for, that is a conference.
Great place to do this in real life, but personally, we
instead want to hide behind our computers and never
see someone's face. The next one in the list is from
Stack Exchange, and after taking a peek at it, we
can actually tell that yes, this will work. Just as a
side note, you'll often notice your topic is actually
a subtopic of a bigger forum.
That's perfectly fine.
Just make sure that the subtopic group itself isn't dead.
Make sure to check the date of the last post.
Okay, so I would mark this one,
Stack Exchange, as a winner.
Now, scanning through the others in my list, I can
see that there is a Life Hacker article that links to
a productivity forum, and if we were going
to try that, well, I'll save you some time.
It actually takes you to a 404 page.
Great. But on the next line, we have Rise Forums, which
sounds like a god awful internet marketer forum, and
I think it is, but it does actually have a separate
section on productivity, so that actually looks pretty
promising for what we're trying to do. Both Stack Exchange
and Rise Forum are legitimate options for this technique.
OK, so do that for yourself,
and if you have trouble, obviously
just go and post in the Slack group.
You should come away with at least
a handful of forums to check out.
Generally speaking, when you search and then you click
through, you're going to run into three different types
of forums. One, you'll find what's called an open thread
forum, two, you'll find close thread forums, and
three, you'll find Q&A format forums. In open thread
forums, you'll find the most traditional form of forum,
and generally what you get if you use any of those softwares that we previously covered like phpbb.
In this scenario, anyone can create
an account, anyone can post,
you can see a list of topics and then a list of maybe
subtopics, then a list of threads with the subject
of each thread displayed.
The original thread creator posts something, it could
be something they did or, let's say, a question they
have, and then people respond
both to the original poster,
often abbreviated as OP, and to each other.
Now, a closed forum, on the other hand, is exactly the
same, except the registration to the forum is closed.
It could be closed in that you need an invite to join
or closed in that you need to pay money to join.
If it costs money,
it's really just going to be up to you
whether or not you want to join.
Unless it's some exorbitant amount of money,
I generally say go for it,
because if the group is relevant, you're going
to want to be lurking in there anyway.
The last type, like we previously saw, is a Q&A forum.
The difference here is that the topic of each thread
is a question and the posts after that are going
to be directed at that question and
not what other people said.
The game is a little bit different here,
so just keep that in mind.
All right, so we know how to find forums and we know,
generally speaking, what types we're going to have
to handle. In the next lecture,
let's talk about getting into them
and actually making some noises.
Get as excited as you possibly can. See you then.